>> Bianca: So we have our linear stuff,
are we feeling comfortable with that?
Because we're going to like walk off
the cliff soon to our non-linear data
structures and
let's just do a quick comparison here.
So in general we talked
about linear being ordered.
They're attached one after another.
And we can form a lot of intuitions
about that because we reason
about things like that in real life,
whereas nonlinear
data structures can be a little
more complicated because
the relationships between nodes
can be multitudes, right?
So when we talk about graphs, you'll see
that a graph can have many connections
between nodes and different
characteristics of those relationships can
affect all kinds of things like the
different types of operations you can do,
the time complexity of those operations,
etc.
The cool thing about nonlinear data
structures though is that we can model
complex things that we can't
really model in our head, right?
And that's where the value comes,
is abstracting these down to something
simple, then applying it to a huge data
set that we can't reason about it all.
And then coming up with some really
interesting insights on that data.
So that's cool.
I like that.
It makes it interesting.
Traversing is a little bit different.
We're going to use a lot of loops
when we're talking about linear data
structures, just regular four-loops.
When we start talking about
non-linear data structures,
we start to get into the recursion.
Who here feels really
good about recursion?
Are you guys serious?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca: I'm just kidding.
Cool, that's awesome because we're
gonna talk a lot about recursion.
We'll break it down.
If you're feeling like recursion is
a little tough hopefully, this will help.
I also have other videos here on front
end masters that go super in depth
on recursion.
In terms of implementing the data
structure, when I say implementing
the data structure I mean the insert and
remove pieces of it.
That is a bit more complex for
nonlinear data structures.
Just because we're going to have,
you can have multiple relationships.
We can have hierarchical data.
And there also might be some
properties we need to observe.
Like for a binary search tree.
Whenever we're inserting or deleting.
There's certain rules we
need to follow and check.
The levels, linear,
you're gonna have single level.
Non-linear, as you might expect,
we're gonna have multiple levels.
So we're gonna have things like height and
depth and children and
parents and
things like that to reason about.
And we know the examples right?
Tree and graph for
non linear and our array base or
link list based on data
structures we discovered.